Module 1: (9 hours)
Review of basic linear algebra topics, Direct sum of vector spaces, Rank-nullity theorem and its proof,
Matrix representation of linear transformation, change of basis, Invariant subspaces, Polynomials applied to
operators, Upper triangular representation for complex operators, Diagonalisation, Invariant subspaces on
real vector spaces.

Module 2: (11 hours)
Inner product spaces, Orthogonal basis, Orthogonal projection, Best approximation, Linear functional,
Adjoint of a linear transformation, Self-adjoint and normal operators, Spectral theorem for normal operators
on complex inner product spaces, Spectral theorem for self adjoint operators, Normal operators on real
inner product spaces, Positive operators, Isometries.

Module 3: (9 hours)
Complex functions, Derivative, Analytic function, Cauchy-Riemann equations, Laplace’s equation.
Geometry of analytic functions: Conformal mapping, Linear fractional Transformations, Schwarz - Christoffel
transformation, Transformation by other functions.

Module 4: (10 hours)
Line integral in the Complex plane, Cauchy’s Integral Theorem, Cauchy’s Integral formula, Derivatives of
analytic functions. Power series, Functions given by power series, Taylor series and Maclaurin series.
Laurent’s series, Singularities and Zeros, Residue integration method, Evaluation of real integrals.

Course Outcomes:

Students will be able to :
CO1: have sufficient knowledge about vector spaces, linear transformation and be able to use these to
diagonalise symmetric matrices.

CO2: have knowledge about different types of linear operators on inner product spaces and their spectral
decomposition.

CO3: be able to identify analytic functions and find harmonic conjugates.

CO4: be able to find images of regions under complex transformations.

CO5: be able to evaluate line integrals in the complex plane

CO6: be able to use techniques of complex analysis to evaluate integrals of real valued functions.

References:
1. S. Axler, Linear algebra done right , 2/e, Springer, 2015.
2. S. Lipschutz and M. Lipson, Schaum's outline of linear algebra , 6/e, McGraw-Hill, 2017.
3. E. Kreyszig, H. Kreyszig, and E. J. Norminton, Advanced engineering mathematics: international
student version , 10/e, New Delhi: Wiley, 2015.
4. C. R. Wylie and L. C. Barrett, Advanced engineering mathematics , 6/e, McGraw-Hill, 1995.

MA2003D MATHEMATICS IV
Prerequisites: MA1001D Mathematics I, MA1002D Mathematics II
L T P C
3 1 0 3
Total Hours: 39

